+++
title = "The Community.o Summit through March 8-10, 2021."
weight = 200
+++

This 3-day virtual event was an inclusive space for underrepresented groups and newcomers, anywhere in their career, interested in learning and contributing to compilers, tools, and programming languages. Members from different open source communities making incredible efforts to support a thriving environment were highlighted. Summit attendees experienced interesting talks, panels, workshops, and networked amongst everyone who could attend.

While many of the sessions were not recorded, you may find various talks available through the LLVM Youtube.  
  * [2021 Community.o Summit: LLVM Foundation Welcome](https://youtu.be/2PsN3ODutZI)
  * [2021 Community.o Summit: My Career in Languages and Compilers](https://youtu.be/z7iUHIO2XoQ)
  * [2021 Community.o Summit: You're NOT Alone: Chasing the Journey of Learning and Belonging](https://youtu.be/JbmR1nEfnh8)



The summit held two workshops focused on enriching two main aspects of the LLVM Project ecosystem. 

### Mentorship Experiences as Google Summer of Code and Outreachy. 
Anton Korobeynikov led a workshop to explore new ways of strengthening this experience to attract and support new contributors. These are the focus areas from the discussion.


### The LLVM Developer Experience 
Chris Bieninmen and Kit Barton led a workshop to focus and brainstorm on ways to enhance the LLVM developer experience for new and long standing members. These are the focus areas from the discussion.

**Documentation**


**Communication and Tooling Support**

**Navigating the LLVM Project as a New Contributor**


