+++
title = "Community.o Round Table @ Bay Area LLVM Developers' Meetup on October 20th, 2021."
weight = 199
+++

Organizers held a round table discussion during this in person event to discuss current and future Community.o Initiatives. Thanks to the great feedback from all participants! 
This is a summary of the topics tackled during this round table. 


* The LLVM Project Code Ownership Model 

The LLVM Project has the notion of [code owners.](https://llvm.org/docs/DeveloperPolicy.html#code-owners) This model was discussed heavily as some felt that the responsibility and work assioscatied is  overwhelming. Another hardship the project faces is keeping the set of code owners recorded in the repositorary up to date. This is something that makes acclimating to the project difficult for newcomers as they may not have accurate information to contact the correct folks for questions on components of the project. One solution to rectify this issue that was brought up as revising and renaming the role of what a code owner entails. For example a *code advisor* or *code liassian* could serve as a point of contact for individuals to direct experts. 

* Code Reviews

An issue that was brought up is the disparity of active code reviewers in comparison to patches that need reviewing. There was an emphasis on how to empower more individuals to become reviewers. Solutions regarding this were promoting seasoned reviewers to incolude more optional reviewers after they've merged a handful of commits and asking for their feedback even if it isnt final or absolute. Additionally, The LLVM Project could document more practices for effective code reviewing.  


* Fragmented Communication 

At the time of the Meetup, The LLVM Project supports multiple mediums for communication which span from mailing lists, discourse, discord and IRC. Folks seem interested in conslidating all these different avenues to reduce the friction in communication. This was stated as a painpoint for newcomers and long standing members of the project alike. Partipants brought up different open source communites who effectively utilize one medium and that people often move to where everyone else already is. From a infrastructal standpoint, an action that may help steadily transition community members to one communication tool is to enable all new and related functionality into that single communication tool, for example, notifications for new LLVM toolchain releases.  Note, the focus of this was the importance for a single communication form, not which form to use. 


* The General Sense of Community Since the Start of the Covid-19 Global Pandemic

Since the start of this pandemic there has been a new emphasis on supporting virtual formats for communication that has impacted much more than the LLVM Project itself. The short comings of virtually meeting are felt. It was stated that in virtual formats it's more difficult to introduce individuals unlike in-person events like the previous Bay Area Monthly Socials and the US and Europe LLVM Developers' Meeting. What may be interesting to explore is introducing more regular virtual meetups for community members to discuss interests, concerns and progress on different efforts that impact the LLVM Project. Additonally in the past, the LLVM Developers' Meeting held a newcomers oreintiation that could be reintroduced for future virtual events. 



If you are interested in following up in any of the topics brought up during this round table, please don't hestitate to follow up on [Discourse.](https://llvm.discourse.group)
